Ambiguous names which correspond to many authors are a longstanding headache for bibliometric assessors and users of digital libraries. Author Name Disambiguation refers to splitting the bibliographic records by different authors with the same name into different clusters, so that each cluster belongs to one author, and each author's works are gathered in one cluster.

An author’s affiliation information is often only available in the fulltext of a paper, which is often difficult to obtain. To make our method as general as possible, we assume only bibliographic records are available, in the form as in DBLP. The information includes the list of coauthors, the published venue (conference or journal name), and the paper title.

Among these attributes, coauthors have the strongest evidential value. But not all coauthors are enough strong evidence to support that two papers are by the same author. We developed a simple statistical method to measure the evidential strength of different coauthors.

Published venues and titles are both weak evidence, in the sense that many namesakes work in the same area or publish in the same venues. Venues of each cluster of papers are put together as venue sets, to make the evidence stronger. Previous methods use heuristic set similarity measures as Jaccard Coefficient, or Cosine Similarity, etc., which don’t accurately measure the aggregated evidential strength of these venues and result in low precisions. In contrast, we propose a novel set similarity measure, namely Categorical Sampling Likelihood Ratio (CSLR), to measure the aggregated evidential value of such sets.

Titles are harder to process. Previous work typically uses unigram ``bag-of-words'' (BoW) model (weighted by TF*IDF or unweighted) to represent titles before comparing their similarity. But at this level discriminative terms are broken into less discriminative words, so unigram model limits the accuracy of the system. In contrast, we extract terms from titles using a taxonomy derived from Wikipedia. In the granularity of complete terms, we achieve a more accurate title matching.

We test our system on the January 2011 dump of DBLP. Compared to the baselines, our method gains 4-5% performance boost (measured in the average F1 score), by incorporating either CSLR or Wikipedia Taxonomy. When both components are used, the performance is increased by around 8%. Besides, our method significantly outperforms two representative existing methods (DISTINCT and arnetminer.org. Average F1 score is 10-15% higher). 

The whole system is implemented in Perl. It has totally around 20,000 lines of code. The complete source code, as well as the labeled data (All publications of 18 names. 8 are used as development set, 10 are used as test set) are published at https://github.com/askerlee/namedis
